So we want to load that jet screen if we are authenticated and therefore in Maine darte, we need to
swap this off screen for to chat screen.
If we do find out that we have a BELITZ Tolkan now in the AFT section, we did something similar.
But there you saw that there are a couple of steps you need to to do or you need to take care about
when you're managing the token on your own.
The cool thing is with Firebase and Firebase off, that entire Tolkan management is done for you and
therefore swapping pages based on the off status is extremely easy.
We can replace our home, which is here with a stream builder, I showed you the stream builder early
already.
Now this takes a stream and then a builder argument.
Now for the stream.
All here, not take like cloud firestorm, but instead my fire pays off package or a feature from that
package.
So I'll import package fire based off Firebase of Dodge Dart.
And then with that important here, we can use firebase orthodontia instance, dot on Off-stage changed,
and this gives us a stream and this stream will emit a new value whenever the all state changes and
the off-stage changes, when we sign up, when we log in, when we log out, but also when the app is
loading, it will check if there is a cached token and that caching and storage will be managed entirely
by Firebase here by the Firebase Flutter package.
And if it finds such a token, it will validate the token and if token is valid, it will even use that
token even after a new app startup.
So did the entire Tolkan stretch and manage it across app restarts stuff is fully managed by Firebase
here, which is extremely convenient.
So we just need to listen to that stream.
And then the builder here will fire whenever our off status changes here, we get the context and we
get that user snapshot.
And in this function, we then can return different widgets based on the user snapshot.
We can check if the user snapshot has data, which means that we did find a token, essentially.
And in that case, we can return the chat screen to chat.
Screen here.
House data is a field that is available on the snapshot to, well, indicate whether we found some valid
data, if we didn't find data, will return the off screen because then we need to authenticate it.
If we're now saved, as you will see that the chat screen is here, because I did sign up earlier,
Firebase, as I explained multiple times, did take and stored at Tolkan and managed it behind the scenes
and the effort just by adding this code, Firebase checked if it had a token.
It does, and therefore it logs us in and it renders the chat screen just like that all managed behind
the scenes.
So that's my firebase authentication is really amazing here now to see it fully in action, logout functionality
might also be nice and therefore I'll go to the chat screen and here on the scaffold.
I'll add a Apapa.
The default abar.
And this app bar will get a title.
Which can be a text widget where I say.
Flutter, chat, anything like that, and more importantly than that, it will get some actions.
Actions is an array of widgets, and there I want to add a dropdown button, which is a default widget
that comes with flutter.
The dropdown button is able to render Aykan, which is displayed in the action bar, and they're all
use the icon widget and then the more virt icon, which basically gives us three vertical dots.
I'll also set the.
Color.
Here of the Eichen to theme of context, primary color.
Sorry, not primary, but primary, I can theme color.
Like this.
Now, this will render a nice drop down button, which we see here, but this button doesn't do anything
right now.
So to make sure that it does.
On the drop down button, but outside of the icon, we set some items, which are the items that are
shown when we click the drop down button, and that, again, is a list of widgets.
And here we typically render a drop down menu items.
And that is a single item in that dropdown and here I want to have one item.
It has a child where I will use a container and that container has a child where I will use a rope because
I want to render two widgets next to each other here as a child in that dropdown.
The two widgets next to each other should be Aykan, so a regular Aykan widget where I use the exit
to app icon and then a text widget where I say.
Logout and for some extra spacing, I'll add a third widget here, a size box where I set the width
to eight.
Now, we also need to give this drop down menu item value, which will act as an identifier, and I'll
just use logout here.
The value is up to you.
With that back on the entire drop down button here, you can add on changed argument and that should
be a function which gets the item identifier.
So the value you specified here, if you had multiple items, you could find out which item was pressed
by looking at the identifier here.
Of course, we have only one item.
Still, for completeness sake, I'll check if item identifier is equal to logout, to which, of course,
should be here, since that's our only item.
And if that's the case, I want to log out for this.
I'll again use the firebase off package.
So package firebase off, firebase off dot dart and here we can then call Firebase off dot instant's
dot sign out and this will lock the user out.
With all of that now, we can open this and if I click logout, I'm back here because this science yuzu
out, it will automatically destroy the token and it will emit a new event here on the off state changed
stream.
And there we will find out that we no longer have a token.
So we won't make it into this if statement and instead does off screen is returned again.
And therefore now if I log in again here.
You, of course, see that we go back to the chat screen, so that works, that logon and log out part
works.
So that was a lot of progress.
Let me now talk briefly about some firebase database rules, which are important when we talk about
security on Firebase before we then start working on the actual chat here.